id: 195339
url: https://www.grantforward.com/grant?grant_id=195339
amount_info: This BAA is open and effective until 18 April 2021. Total funding for this BAA is approximately $42.5M. The anticipated funding to be obligated under this BAA is broken out by fiscal year as follows: FY 16 approximately $8M; FY 17 approximately $9M; FY 18 approximately $9M; FY 19 approximately $9M; FY 20 approximately $7.5M. This funding profile is an estimate only and will not be a contractual obligation for funding as all funding is subject to change due to Government discretion and availability. Potential offerors should be aware that due to unanticipated budget fluctuations funding in any or all areas may change with little or no notice. Individual awards may range from 12 to 60 months in duration and should normally range between
$100K and $5M per contract or assistance instrument. Awards of efforts as a result of this announcement will be in the form of contracts, assistance instruments, or other transactions depending upon the nature of the work proposed.
site_grant_type: nan
modified_date: 2020-07-22 04:37:02
application_url: https://www.grants.gov/grantsws/rest/opportunity/att/download/251924
title: Air Force Research Laboratory, Materials & Manufacturing Directorate, Functional Materials and Applications (AFRL/RXA) Two-Step Open BAA - Photonic Materials Core Competencies: Photonic Materials Applied Research
all_titles: AFRL/RX Functional Materials Open BAA-Photonic Materials Core Competencies: Photonic Materials Applied Research=CZD=Air Force Research Laboratory, Materials & Manufacturing Directorate, Functional Materials and Applications (AFRL/RXA) Two-Step Open BAA - Photonic Materials Core Competencies: Photonic Materials Applied Research
submission_info: First Step (White Paper) Instructions
a. General: The FIRST STEP requests a White Paper (to include a Quad Chart) and a rough order of magnitude (ROM) cost. The White Paper shall include a discussion of the nature and scope of the research and the offeror's proposed technical approach. The Government will review the White Papers in accordance with the FIRST STEP review criteria, set forth in Section V. below. Based on this review, the Government will determine which of them have the potential to best meet the Air Force's needs. Offerors will be notified of the disposition of their White Paper. It is anticipated that
Government review of the White Papers submitted will take 30 working days. Those offerors submitting White Papers assessed as meeting Air Force needs will be asked to submit a technical and cost proposal. Those offerors not requested to submit a technical and cost proposal will be notified but may, however, still elect to submit a technical and cost proposal. An offeror submitting a proposal without first submitting a White Paper will not be eligible for an award. The cost of preparing White Papers in response to this BAA is not considered an allowable direct charge to any resulting or any other contract; however, it may be an allowable expense to the normal bid and proposal indirect cost as specified in FAR 31.205-18.
b. Page Limitation: The White Paper shall be limited to 4 pages plus 1 page for the Quad Chart for a total submission of 5 pages. The White Paper shall be prepared and submitted in Word format and be in the standard 10- point business font Arial. Character spacing must be "normal," not condensed in any manner. Pages shall be double-spaced (must use standard double-space function in Microsoft Word), double-sided (each side counts as one page), 8.5 by 11 inches, with at least one-inch margins on both sides, top and bottom. Lines between text lines must also be 10-point. All text, including text in tables and charts, must adhere to all font size and line spacing requirements listed herein. Font and line spacing requirements do not have to be followed for illustrations, flowcharts, drawings, and diagrams. These exceptions shall not be used to circumvent formatting requirements and page count limitations by including lengthy narratives in
such items. Pages associated with the White Paper shall be numbered starting with the cover page being Page 1, and the last page being Page 5. The page limitation covers all information including indices, photographs, foldouts (counted as 1 page for each 8.5 by 11 portion) tables, charts, appendices, attachments, resumes, etc. (except the Quad Chart, which is treated separately, and is limited to one page). The Government will not consider pages in excess of these limitations. Offerors should submit 1 original and 2 hard copies of the White Paper via mail to the Contracting POC, identified in Section VII. A CD with the WORD version of your White Paper must be submitted with the hard copies of the White Paper, and must match the hard copy.
c. Format: The White Paper will be formatted as follows: (1) Section A: Title of Program, Name of Company, Company's Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) number, Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number, Contracting POC and Technical POC with appropriate telephone numbers, fax numbers, and email addresses for the POCs; (2) Section B: Period of Performance and Task Objectives; (3) Section C: Technical Summary; (4) Section D: Quad Chart and (5) Section E: Cost of Task (Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM)).
d. Technical Portion: The technical portion of the White Paper shall include a discussion of the nature and scope of the research and the offeror's proposed technical approach/solution. It may also include any proposed deliverables. Resumes, descriptions of facilities and equipment, and a proposed Statement of Work are not required at this point. Following is the instructions for populating the Quad Chart template (Attachment 2) is attached to the BAA:
i. Enter Project Title (use Arial 24 point), Principal Investigator (PI),
intended functional material competency need and intended Air Force application need at the top center of the Quad Chart.
ii. Complete all the sections of the Quad Chart
iii. Upper Left: Objective, Description of Effort
iv. Lower Left: Program/Technical Approach, Challenges, Benefits of Proposed Technology
v. Upper Right: List accomplishments, research efforts and contracts related to the proposed effort
vi. Lower Right: Major Goals/Milestones by FY, Cost by FY, Contact Information (PI name, organization, phone & e-mail address)
vii. Provide an estimate of annual cost in thousands of dollars ($K) per proposed year of effort. Programs/Projects can range from 1 to 5 years.
viii. Except for the title, all text should be Arial 12 point.
ix. Submit the Quad Chart with the White Paper. If the White Paper is selected for a full proposal, you will be asked to modify the Quad Chart
to better reflect the proposal content.
e. Cost Portion: The cost portion of the White Paper shall include a ROM cost estimate. No detailed price or cost support information should be forwarded; only a time-phased bottom line figure should be provided.
f. Other Information: Multiple White Papers within the purview of this announcement may be submitted by each offeror. If the offeror wishes to restrict its White Papers, they must be marked with the restrictive language stated in FAR 15.609(a) and (b).
g. White Paper/Proposal Content Summary: You may be ineligible for award if all requirements of this solicitation are not met on the proposal due date. Reference Section VIII for a checklist of the requirements.
h. White Paper Due Date and Time: See Overview Information at the  beginning of the Solicitation

Second Step - Proposal for Contracts Instructions:
a. The SECOND STEP consists of offerors submitting a technical and cost proposal. Upon notification from the government of interest in the submitted white paper, the offeror should submit a technical and cost proposal within 30 working days of the proposal request. Up to 60 days can be allowed for larger value proposals. After receipt, proposals will be evaluated in accordance with the award criteria in Section V. below. Proposals submitted shall be in
accordance with this announcement. There will be no other solicitation issued in regard to this requirement. The Government intends to evaluate proposals and award some, all, or none of the proposals received without negotiation/discussion; however, the Government reserves the right to negotiate with those offeror(s)
whose proposal is selected for funding.
b. Technical/Management Proposal:
(1) Page Limitations: The following describes proposal page limitations:
a) The Technical/Management Proposal shall be limited to 20 pages plus 1 page for the Quad Chart (for a total limit of 21 pages). Technical/Management proposals and Statements of Work must be provided in Microsoft Word. Signed pages may be submitted in Adobe.
b) Font shall be standard 10-point business font Arial.
c) Character spacing must be "normal," not condensed in any manner.
d) Pages shall be double-spaced (must use standard doublespace function in Microsoft Word), double sided (each side
counts as one page), 8.5 by 11 inches, with at least one-inch margins on both sides, top and bottom.
e) All text, including text in tables and charts, must adhere to all font size and line spacing requirements listed herein. Font and line spacing requirements do not have to be followed for illustrations, flowcharts, drawings, and diagrams. These exceptions shall not be used to circumvent formatting requirements and page count limitations by including lengthy narratives in such items.
f) Pages associated with the Technical/Management Proposal shall be numbered starting with the cover page being Page 1, and the last page being no greater than Page 20. The page limitation covers all information including indices,
photographs, foldouts (counted as 1 page for each 8.5 by 11 portion) tables, charts, appendices, attachments, resumes, etc. appendices, attachments, resumes, etc. (except the Quad Chart, which is treated separately, and is limited to one
page).
g) The proposal page limit does not include the offeror's proposed Statement of Work (SOW); however, the same
formatting rules apply to the SOW, which is limited to 10 pages.
h) Please Note: The Government will check the proposal and SOW for conformance to the stated requirements.
Any pages in excess of the stated page limitation after the format check will not be considered for evaluation
purposes.
(2) The Technical/Management proposal shall include a discussion of the nature and scope of the research and the
technical approach. Additional information on prior work in this area, descriptions of available equipment, use of base support (if desired), data and facilities and resumes of personnel who will be participating in this effort should also be included as attachments to the technical proposal. This volume shall include a SOW detailing the technical tasks proposed to be accomplished under the proposed effort and suitable for contract incorporation. Do not include any proprietary information in the SOW. Refer to the BAA Guide for Industry referenced above to assist in SOW preparation.
(3) Any questions concerning the technical proposal or SOW preparation shall be referred to the Technical POC

c. Cost/Business Proposal:
(1) Separate the proposal into a business section and cost section.
a) The business section should contain all business aspects to the proposed contract, such as type of contract, any exceptions to terms and conditions of the announcement including the model contract, any information not technically related, etc. Provide rationale for exceptions.
b) Associate Contractor Agreements: Associate Contractor Agreements (ACAs) are agreements between contractors
working on Government contracts that require them to share information, data, technical knowledge, expertise, or
resources. The contracting officer may require ACAs when contractors working on separate Government contracts must
cooperate, share resources or otherwise jointly participate in working on contracts or projects. Prime contractor to
subcontractor relationships do not constitute ACAs. For each award, the contracting officer will identify associate
contractors with whom agreements are required.
c) Identify any technical data that will be delivered with less than unlimited rights.
d) Subcontracting Plans: For efforts to exceed $700,000,Subcontracting Plans shall be submitted in the cost/business
proposal. Reference FAR 19.704, DFARS 219.704, and AFFARS 5319.704(a)(1) for subcontracting plan requirements.
Small business concerns are exempt from this requirement. If an IDIQ contract arrangement is anticipated, the basis for the subcontracting plan should reflect the entire ceiling amount.
e) Limitations on Pass-Through Charges: As prescribed in FAR 15.408(n)(1) & 15.408(n)(2), provisions 52.215-22,
"Limitations on Pass Through Charges- Identification of Subcontract Effort (Oct 2009)," apply.
f) Completed Certifications and Representations (Section K) are due with the full technical and cost proposal. Certifications and Representations (Section K) will be provided to offerors requested to submit a full technical and cost proposal. Offerors may also be required to submit updated or supplemental Certifications and Representations based on the specifics of their proposal.
g) If an offeror proposes the use of Government Furnished Property (GFP), other than GFP identified in the BAA, the offer must specifically identify each piece of GFP in the Cost/Business Proposal, and propose and substantiate a rental
cost for evaluation purposes in accordance with FAR 45.202. Include the following information in the proposal:
(i) A list describing all Government property that the offeror or its subcontractors propose to use on a rent-free basis.
The list shall identify the accountable contract under which the property is held and the authorization for its use (from
the contracting officer having cognizance of the property); (ii)The dates during which the property will be used and, for
any property that will be used concurrently in performing two or more contracts, the amounts of the respective uses
in sufficient detail to support prorating the rent; 
(iii) The amount of rent that would otherwise be charged in accordance with FAR 52.245-9, Use and Charges; and
(iv)The voluntary consensus standard or industry leading practices and standards to be used in the management of
Government property, or existing property management plans, methods, practices, or procedures for accounting for
property.
ii Cost Element Breakdown: Clear, concise, and accurate cost proposals reflect the offeror's financial plan for accomplishing the effort contained in the technical proposal. As a part of its cost proposal, the offeror shall submit the information outlined below, together with supporting breakdowns. All direct costs (labor, material, travel, computer, etc.) as well as labor and overhead rates should be provided by contractor fiscal year (CFY). Detailed cost element breakdowns by Government Fiscal Year or calendar year are not required. The supporting schedules may include
summary level estimating rationale used to generate the proposed costs. The cost element breakdown(s) should include
the following if applicable.
a) Direct Labor: Direct labor should be detailed by number of labor hours by category of labor.
b) Labor and Overhead Rates: Direct labor hours, with their applicable rates, must be broken out and the bases used clearly identified. The source of labor and overhead rates and all pricing factors should be identified. For instance, if a Forward Pricing Rate Agreement (FPRA) is in existence, that should be noted, along with the Administrative Contracting Officer's (ACO's) name and telephone number. If the rates are based on current experience in your organization, provide the historical base used and clearly identify all escalation, by year, applied to derive the proposed rates. If computer usage is determined by a rate, identify the basis used and rationale used to derive the rate.
c) Material/Equipment: List all material/equipment items by type and kind with associated costs, and advise if the costs are based on vendor quotes, data and/or engineering estimates; provide copies of vendor quotes and/or catalog pricing data.
 d) Subcontractor Costs: Submit all subcontractor proposals and analyses with your cost proposal (See FAR 15.404-3(b)). If the subcontractor will not submit cost and pricing information to the offeror, this information must be submitted directly to the Government for analysis. On all subcontracts and interdivisional transfers, provide the method of selection used to determine the subcontractor and the proposed contract type of each subcontract. An explanation shall be provided if the offeror proposes a different amount than that quoted by the subcontractor. The offeror's proposal must:
(i) Identify principal items/services to be subcontracted.
(ii)Identify prospective subcontractors and the basis on which they were selected. If non-competitive, provide selected
source justification
(iii) Identify the type of contractual business arrangement contemplated for the subcontract and provide rationale
(iv) Identify the basis for the subcontract costs (e.g., firm quote or engineering estimate, etc.).
(v) Identify the cost or pricing data submitted by the subcontractor.
(vi) Provide an analysis of the proposed subcontract in accordance with FAR 15.404-3(b). Provide an analysis concerning the reasonableness, realism and completeness of each subcontractor's proposal. If the analysis is based
on comparison with prior prices, identify the basis on which the prior prices were determined to be reasonable.
The analysis should include, but not be limited to, an analysis of: materials, labor, travel, other direct costs and
proposed profit or fee rates.
e) Special Tooling or Test Equipment: When special tooling, and/or test equipment is proposed, attach a brief description
of items and indicate if they are solely for the performance of this particular contract or project and if they are or are not
already available in the offeror's existing facilities. Indicate quantities, unit prices, whether items are to be purchased or
fabricated, whether items are of a severable nature and the basis of the price. These items may be included under Direct
Material in the summary format.
f) Consultants: When consultants are proposed to be used in the performance of the contract, indicate the specific project or area in which such services are to be used. Identify each consultant, number of hours or days to be used and the consultant's rate per hour or day. State the basis of said rate and give your analysis of the acceptability of the consultant's rate

g) Travel: Travel costs must be justified and related to the needs of the project. Identify the number of trips, the destination and purpose. Travel costs should be broken out by trip with number of travelers, airfare, per diem, lodging, etc.
h) Computer Use: Detail the amount and kind of computer usage, the cost, and how the costs were derived.
i) Facilities Capital Cost of Money: If Facilities Capital Cost of Money is proposed, a properly executed DD Form 1861 is
required.
j) Project Funding Profile: Offerors should include a project funding profile by Government Fiscal Year (GFY) (1 Oct
through 30 Sept) for budgetary purposes. This will enable the Government to easily identify program funding needs by GFY.
k) If an offeror takes exceptions to the requirements called out
in the announcement (e.g., base support, Governmentfurnished property (GFP), CDRLs), the exceptions should be
clearly stated in the cost proposal.
l) Forward Pricing Rate Agreements: Offerors who have forward pricing rate agreements (FPRA's) and forward pricing
rate recommendations (FPRR's) should submit them with their proposal.
m) Cost/Business proposals have no page limitations.g) Travel: Travel costs must be justified and related to the
needs of the project. Identify the number of trips, the destination and purpose. Travel costs should be broken out by
trip with number of travelers, airfare, per diem, lodging, etc.
h) Computer Use: Detail the amount and kind of computer usage, the cost, and how the costs were derived.
i) Facilities Capital Cost of Money: If Facilities Capital Cost of Money is proposed, a properly executed DD Form 1861 is
required.
j) Project Funding Profile: Offerors should include a project funding profile by Government Fiscal Year (GFY) (1 Oct
through 30 Sept) for budgetary purposes. This will enable the Government to easily identify program funding needs by GFY.
k) If an offeror takes exceptions to the requirements called out in the announcement (e.g., base support, Governmentfurnished property (GFP), CDRLs), the exceptions should be clearly stated in the cost proposal.
l) Forward Pricing Rate Agreements: Offerors who have forward pricing rate agreements (FPRA's) and forward pricing
rate recommendations (FPRR's) should submit them with their proposal.
m) Cost/Business proposals have no page limitations.
all_grant_source_urls: https://www.grants.gov/custom/viewOppDetails.jsp?oppId=283134
status: Closed
description: Funding Opportunity Number:	BAA-AFRL-RQKMA-2016-0007

Photonic Materials Applied Research: Research to advance the current state-of-the-art in photonic materials technologies,
interactions, and applications using unique and innovative solutions for improved survivability of sensors, structures,
systems, and aircrew members. Some of the key technical areas of interest include Optical Materials and Processing,
Hardening Materials and Processing, Electro-Optic/Infrared (EO/IR) Sensor Protection, Warfighter Protection, Structural
Protection, Optical Technology, Computational and Theoretical Studies on Functional Materials, and Materials Technology for Airborne Lasers. This research may involve structural material testing, IR materials research, high energy laser materials
interactive, sensor component characterization and testing, and space environment testing on sensors, components and
structures in a wide variety of configurations and materials which are designed for many different applications and 
performance parameters to include laboratory conditions, field or range conditions external to the laboratory, and simulated
atmospheric, flight and space environments. The interaction of materials, structures, and sensor components and configurations of interest to the Air Force and DoD with external sources and environments is integral to the development of materials technologies appropriate for these applications. Materials of interest may include existing or newly developed materials for structures, integrated optics and detector technologies, as well as materials and component configurations for sensing or imaging applications (NAICS Code 541712).
eligibility: 1. Eligible Offeror: This is an unrestricted solicitation. Small businesses are encouraged to propose.
2. Cost Sharing or Matching: Cost Sharing is not required.
3. Federally Funded Research and Development Centers: The following guidance is provided for Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs) contemplating submitting a proposal, as either a prime or subcontractor. FAR 35.017-1(c)(4) prohibits an FFRDC from competing with any non-FFRDC concern in response to a Federal agency request for proposal for other than the operation of an FFRDC (with exceptions stated in DFARS 235.017-1(c)(4)). There is
no regulation prohibiting an FFRDC from responding to a solicitation. However, the FFRDC's sponsoring agency must first make a determination that the effort being proposed falls within the purpose, mission, general scope of effort, or special competency of the FFRDC, and that determination must be included in the FFRDC's proposal. In addition, AFRL must make a determination that the work proposed would not place the FFRDC in direct competition with domestic private industry. Only after these determinations are made, would a determination be made concerning the FFRDC's eligibility to receive
an award.
4. Government Agencies: If a Government agency is interested in performing work, contact the Program Manager identified in the BAA. If those discussions result in a mutual interest to pursue your agency's participation, the effort will be pursued independent of this announcement.
5. Other:
a. Foreign participation: Foreign Disclosure Review will be accomplished on each white paper submission selected for funding; therefore foreign participation may or may not be allowed.
b. Notice to Foreign-Owned Firms: Such firms are asked to immediately notify the Contracting Officer before deciding to respond to this announcement. Foreign contractors should be aware that restrictions might apply which could preclude their
participation in this acquisition.
c. There are no limits on the number of white papers an offeror may submit.
d. You may be ineligible for award if all requirements of this solicitation are not met on the white paper (and later proposal).
categories_display: {"Science": null, "Technology": null}
limited_grant_info: nan
user_categories: Science;Technology
submit_date: 2017-07-27 21:37:39
is_limited: 0
site_categories: nan
cost_sharing: nan
grant_source_url: https://www.grants.gov/custom/viewOppDetails.jsp?oppId=283134
deadlines: None
amounts: 
      
all_types: Research Project
all_applicant_types: Government; Commercial; Organization; Not for Individual
locations: None
sponsors: 
      
ext_grant_id: None
replaces: nan
