id: 290268
url: https://www.grantforward.com/grant?grant_id=290268
amount_info: Public support for the arts in New Jersey comes from a dedicated, renewable revenue source - the Hotel/Motel Occupancy Fee - established in 2003. Under this law, 22.68% of the fees collected are annually allocated to the State Arts Council with a minimum appropriation of $16 million. Additionally, the Council receives an annual, competitive grant from the National Endowment for the Arts.
site_grant_type: nan
modified_date: 2022-11-08 05:35:12
application_url: https://www.nj.gov/state/njsca/assets/pdf/fy20-22-gps-guidelines.pdf
title: New Jersey State Council on the Arts - General Program Support (GPS)
all_titles: New Jersey State Council on the Arts - General Program Support (GPS)
submission_info: GPS APPLICATION COMPONENTS 
Organizational Profile Form: This form provides the essential information about the organization.
Application Form: This form provides the essential information about the request for funding.
Purpose of Funding: This statement is limited to approximately 50 words or 300 characters. It will be used in press releases and for other public inquiries. It should contain the basic "who, what, where, and when"
information.
Sample Statement: "This grant will help support the Sample Theatre Company's main stage season of four productions serving an estimated audience of 13,000 northern NJ residents; a six-play summer reading series for an invited audience of 3,000; a Youth Conservatory serving 75 young people and a Saturday Children's Series."
Narrative: This statement is limited to 8 pages or approximately 32,800 characters. It should clearly and concisely communicate your organization's story to the panel and provide context for the other materials in the application. The narrative should directly address the Evaluation Criteria through the "Narrative Topics."
Board Chart: This chart identifies who is on the organization's current board and advisory board. Current grantees, check for accuracy if the chart is already completed in SAGE.
Staff Chart: This chart identifies the organization's current staff, which must include, at a minimum, one part-time employee.
Finance Charts: Provide Organizational Income and Expense Charts detailing three years of financial information. Use the notes feature to describe or explain your finance charts. The panel expects accompanying budget notes to provide clear information about the organization's complete financial picture.
In-Kind Contributions Chart (Optional): This chart documents any in-kind goods or services received/to be received by the organization for the program. Remember, in-kind goods and services may not be counted toward the match. Detailing in-kind contributions is helpful for panelists to understand those costs not detailed in the Project Expense Charts. Contributions must be documented based on fair market value.
Audits/Financial Statements: Organizations must upload FY17 and FY18 audits or reviews of financial statements. The reports provided should be at minimum an independent corroboration and review of finances and internal controls conducted by a CPA (or by a Public Accountant certified before 12/31/70).
Colleges, Universities and units of government are exempt from this audit requirement. In all cases in which a management letter is referenced in the audits, a copy should be submitted. An applicant's response to any audit findings may also be included and submitted with the report.
If the audit/financial review for an organization's 2018 fiscal year is not completed by the application due date, but will be available by March 31, 2019, the applicant should substitute a memo noting this fact and then must submit the FY2018 report to the Council by March 31st. Failure to provide the audit may result in disqualification from the panel review process.
Charities Registration and Division of Revenue: Organizations must be in accordance with both Charities Registration Bureau requirements and Division of Revenue requirements, including any other state and federal requirements. Failure to provide proof may result in disqualification from the panel review process.
Required and Optional Support Materials: Support material requirements vary according to discipline.
Detailed information is found in the Support Material section.

SUPPORT MATERIALS 
Required and optional support materials play a significant part in the evaluation process by reinforcing what is presented in the narrative. The support materials are important tools that provide the panel with a complete picture and basis for evaluation.
Applicants are required to submit specific support materials and have the option of submitting up to five additional pieces of support material that are from the past 18 months. Provide a link to your organization's website.
Artistic quality demonstrated through support materials is important. The links and/or uploaded files submitted should present samples of the organization's and associated artists' best work; panelists will assume what you show are the best possible samples.
Support Material Formats: The maximum file size you can upload is 13 MB. There is no size restriction for linked work samples. Do not submit links to password protected sites or pages.

All support materials are uploaded or linked in SAGE. Mailed-in materials will not be accepted. Should you have questions regarding this format, please contact Council Staff.
Required Support Materials
1. Brief Bios of Key Personnel/Artists Credentials The qualifications of persons playing key artistic, administrative, or educational roles (paid staff, board members or volunteers) must be provided. Provide artistic and education credentials for artists who are providing instruction or educational services. Identify the individual serving as the ADA Coordinator and provide a biographical summary if not included in key personnel.
  Provide biographical summaries with credentials related to individuals' functions. Do not include resumes.
  Provide credential summaries (brief biographical sketch) of artists engaged or a sample summary when there are a large number of artists engaged.
2. Strategic Plan The Strategic Plan must provide the long-range (three or more years) goals and objectives of the organization. The Plan must:
  provide action steps for the realization of articulated goals;
  provide clear benchmarks to measure success;
  place the action steps on a realistic, detailed timeline;
  provide a budget to realize the goals within the timeline; and,   provide an update that briefly notes what goals or objectives have been attained to date.
Those organizations between strategic plans should describe in the narrative the process for the development of a plan, including how the process will be conducted, who will be involved, a timeline, and a budget to realize the work.
3. Board-approved Nondiscrimination Policy
4. Board-approved Grievance Procedure for patrons
5. FY17 & F18 Audits
6. FY17 Audit Review Finance Sheet (ARF), if applicable
7. Audio/Visual Support Materials and Other Discipline-Based Special Information Performing Arts Applicants (regardless of discipline) Applicants should provide images that indicate the venue(s) in which work is produced or presented. In addition, applicants should provide materials that detail the organization's past and current public activities.
Promotional videos are not permitted.
List the selections in the order you wish them to be accessed. The panel will view/listen to several selections but likely no more than 10 minutes total. It is important for the applicant to submit samples which:
  provide documentation of artistic quality;
  exhibit a variety of tempos and styles in performance; and,   showcase the work of the organization's ensemble and not solely that of guest artists.
It is recommended that applicant submit brief descriptions of the selections as an optional support material to provide context for the panelists.
Music and Opera Applicants List links or upload work performed within the past 18 months that are representative of the applicant's repertoire.
A list of repertoire is recommended as optional support material. Applicants in Opera may also upload images to demonstrate production values.
Theatre and Musical Theatre Applicants Applicants are not required to submit a work sample in deference to the rules governing Actors' Equity Association. However, if a work sample is available and its submission is not a violation, the applicant is encouraged to submit it.
A list of repertoire from the past 18 month is recommended as optional support material. Applicants should upload images to demonstrate production values.
Dance Applicants List links of work performed within the past 18 months that are representative of the applicant's repertoire.
Visual Arts and Crafts Applicants (and all Museums regardless of discipline) Applicants may upload up to 20 images, including up to four images of the space and/or installation of an exhibit(s). The remaining images should detail exhibited and proposed-to-be-exhibited works by artists who have committed to participation or are under consideration. Floor plans of exhibition spaces are helpful. For exhibitions of contemporary artists' work, samples should be of recent works, unless the exhibition is a retrospective or has an historical perspective.
Media Arts Applicants List links of work(s) produced or presented within the past 18 months.
Literature Applicants Submit sufficient support material to document artistic quality, particularly of any guest writers, workshop leaders, etc. who are engaged for programs.
Folk Arts Applicants Special guidance is provided. Please contact Kim Nguyen at kim.nguyen@sos.nj.gov or 609/292-4495 for additional support.
Multidisciplinary Applicants While no specific materials are required, Multidisciplinary applicants must provide links or upload work based on the different disciplines involved in the program. Consult the Performing Arts and/or Visual Arts and Crafts Applicants sections for submission selections and instructions.
Arts Basic to Education Applicants Special guidance is provided. Please contact Porche  Hardy at porche.hardy@sos.nj.gov or 609/633-1049 for additional support.
Performing Arts Presenters While no specific materials are required, Performing Arts Presenters applicants must provide links or upload work based on the different disciplines involved in the program. If other types of programs or services, such as producing events or artists' services, are provided, applicants should provide documentation. Consult the Performing Arts and/or Visual Arts and Crafts Applicants sections for submission selections and instructions.
Optional Support Materials In addition to the required support materials, applicants may provide up to five additional items of support material. Each item is counted as one piece of support material. For example, a multi-page program is considered one piece; each planning document or article is considered one piece, as is each photo, brochure, letter of support, etc. Up to ten (10) social media posts listed on one document counts as one piece.
all_grant_source_urls: https://www.nj.gov/state/njsca/dos_njsca_grants.html
status: Closed
description: GPS grants are awarded to New Jersey based, nonprofit organizations, agencies, institutions, or units of local government to help underwrite the expense of presenting major, on-going arts programs. This grant category is open to a variety of organizations that produce or present on-going public arts programs. GPS grants are typically awarded with a three-year commitment, subject to contract stipulations and available funds.

ABOUT THE NEW JERSEY STATE COUNCIL ON THE ARTS 
The New Jersey State Council on the Arts is a division of the New Jersey Department of State, created in 1966 by Public Law Chapter 214 and consists of 17 Governor-appointed members, and three ex-officio members representing the New Jersey Secretary of State, the Senate, and the Assembly. The Council's volunteer members are supported by a professional staff who carry out the Council's programs and services from the State Capital in Trenton.

WHAT WE BELIEVE 
We believe the arts are central to every element we value most in a modern society including: human understanding; cultural and civic pride; strong communities; excellent schools; lifelong learning; creative expression; and economic opportunity.

OUR MISSION: GIVEN TO US BY THE PEOPLE OF NEW JERSEY 
In 1966, the Legislature passed, and the governor signed, a bill creating the New Jersey State Council on the Arts, and directing us to do all that is necessary and appropriate to: support, encourage, and foster public interest in the arts; enlarge public and private resources devoted to the arts; promote freedom of expression in the arts; and facilitate the inclusion of art in every public building in New Jersey.

WHAT IS A GENERAL PROGRAM SUPPORT GRANT 
General Program Support (GPS) grants provide support for the operating costs of full-time ongoing public arts programs that meet the Council's eligibility criteria. Review and consideration of GPS requests occur every three years. GPS grants are typically awarded with a three-year commitment, subject to contract stipulations and available funds. This grant is to be matched 3:1 ($3 earned or raised and spent per $1 received from the Council).
eligibility: To be eligible to receive a GPS grant, an applicant must be:
1. incorporated in the State of New Jersey as a non-profit corporation or be a unit of government, college or university;
2. tax-exempt by determination of the Internal Revenue Service in accordance with Sections 501(c)3 or (c)4; and, 3. registered annually with the NJ Charities Registration Bureau and Division of Revenue
4. in compliance with all pertinent state and federal regulations including but not limited to: Fair Labor Standards, the Civil Rights Act of 1964; Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972; the Age Discrimination Act of 1975; the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988; and Section 1913 of 18 U.S.C. and Section 319 of P.L. 101-121. Apart from all other provisions of law, particularly the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act, which bear upon all Council grantees, those grantees whose Council grant is composed all or in part of funds derived from the National Endowment for the Arts will be required to be in compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 at the time of and as a condition of receipt of the grant under penalty of rescission and any others set forth under law.

In addition, the applicant must demonstrate that it has a(n):
1. artistic mission and focus for the program for which the organizaiton is seeking support;
2. board of directors responsible for the governance and administration of the organization, its programs, and finances;
3. been in existence and providing public programs or services for at least two years prior to the application;
4. organizational expense budget of at least $100,000 (new requirement);
5. one half-time administrative staff person on payroll, at minimum (new requirement);
6. current regional or statewide public impact through the organization's programs or projects. Regional impact is defined as serving audiences across a three or more county region of New Jersey. If less than
30% of the audience currently served is from outside the county, the organization is classified as "local impact."
Those organizations that have "local impact" or cannot meet all the Council's eligibility requirements are encouraged to apply for Council support through their respective County Arts Agency, which receives a Local Arts Program grant for this purpose. If you would like more information regarding this opportunity, please contact Mary Eileen Fouratt at Mary-Eileen.Fouratt@sos.nj.gov or 609/984-6815.

In addition, organizations are encouraged to critically examine its capacity in order to successfully manage a GPS grant. Are you prepared and able to:
1. develop and manage a board-approved three-year strategic long-range plan;
2. develop and manage a three-year ADA plan for compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
First-time applicants must complete the Cultural Access Network's "Self-Assessment Survey and Planning Tool" to establish a baseline by December 31, 2019. For more information regarding this requirement, please contact Mary Eileen Fouratt at MaryEileen.Fouratt@sos.nj.gov or 609/984-6815;
3. submit an audit/financial review annually within three months of your organization's fiscal year end;
4. register annually with the NJ Charities Registration Bureau and provide documentation of compliance;
5. register annually with the Division of Revenue and provide documentation of compliance; and, 6. work in SAGE to submit a Contract, Interim Report and Final Report by the respective deadlines each year of the grants three-year cycle?
categories_display: {"Arts": null}
limited_grant_info: nan
user_categories: Arts
submit_date: 2018-11-30 00:33:36
is_limited: 0
site_categories: nan
cost_sharing: This grant is to be matched 3:1 ($3 earned or raised and spent per $1 received from the Council).
grant_source_url: https://www.nj.gov/state/njsca/dos_njsca_grants.html
deadlines: 
      
amounts: None
all_types: Other
all_applicant_types: Government; Not for Commercial; Non-profit; Academic Institution; Organization; Not for Individual
locations: 
      
sponsors: 
      
ext_grant_id: None
replaces: nan
